.TH "disnix-service" "8" "June 2009" "Disnix" "System administration tools"
.SH NAME
disnix\-service \- Provides remote access to deployment primitives
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B disnix\-service
[
.B options
]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBdisnix\-service\fR tool is a daemon running on either the D-Bus system or session bus,
which provides remote access to various deployment operations, 
such as importing, exporting, activating and deactivating services.
.PP
The daemon is not very useful on its own, since it requires a wrapper that exposes the methods
to remote users. The simplest wrapper that can be used is just running a SSH server and
by using the \fBdisnix\-ssh\-client\fR from the client machines.
.PP
Other wrappers can also be used, which are basically thin layers that map the RPC
protocol calls to D-Bus calls. A web service layer and client, for instance, is
also available from the Disnix webpage which allows a user to use SOAP for
executing deployment operations instead of SSH.
.PP
The \fBdisnix\-service\fR also requires activation modules. Since a service can have
basically any form and can be deployed on various platforms and architectures, there is
no generic way to activate them. The service therefore needs to know which activation module
scripts it can use, to map activation types on activation modules.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-activation-modules-dir\fR
Directory where the activation modules can be found
.TP
\fB\-\-session-bus\fR
Register the Disnix service on the session bus instead of the system bus (useful for testing)
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Shows the usage of this command to the user

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sshd (8),
.BR disnix-ssh-client (8),
.SH AUTHOR
Sander van der Burg <s.vanderburg@tudelft.nl>
