.TH "disnix-instantiate" "8" "June 2009" "Disnix" "System administration tools"
.SH NAME
disnix\-instantiate \- Instantiate store derivations from Disnix models
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B disnix\-instantiate
\-s services_expr \-i infrastructure_expr \-d distribution_expr
[
.B options
]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The command \fBdisnix\-instantiate\fR generates store derivations from the three Disnix models that capture
concerns of the deployment of a distributed system, which are the services, infrastructure and distribution
expressions.
.PP
The services expression captures all the components of the distributed system. The infrastructure model captures
properties of the machines in the network. The distribution model maps the services from the services to the machines
in the infrastructure model.
.PP
Most users and developers don't need to use this command directly. The commands \fBdisnix\-build\fR and \fBdisnix\-env\fR
perform store derivation instantiation automatically. It is mostly used for debugging purposes or to perform certain
tasks manually.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-services\fR
Provide a services model, which captures the components of a distributed system
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-infrastructure\fR
Provide a infrastructure model, which captures properties of the machines in the network
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-distribution\fR
Provide a distribution model, which maps services to machines
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mapfun\fR
Provide a function which maps each element in the distribution model to a protocol specific element. Optional argument.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Shows the usage of this command to the user
.SH AUTHOR
Sander van der Burg <s.vanderburg@tudelft.nl>
